okay so this is Dells latest and
greatest XPS 15 for 2019 this is now the
fourth iteration of this product and
it's good it's really good for what it
was meant to be but it's not as good as
what it could have been so when this
thing first launched four years ago I
think it was one of the best looking
devices available in the market at the
time I think a lot of people felt the
same way it was just a really nice
looking 15-inch powerful laptop and it
was thin it was light but three years
later it's not as unique of a product as
it once was and because it's on its
fourth iteration I'm not going to go
through the details of every single
components like a lot of it has not
changed even compared to the first
iteration it still has the same kind of
design on the outside still has the
carbon fiber keyboard it's a great
looking device and it's a great
performing device for what it is
but I'm going to focus this video on the
stuff that has changed as well as like a
bigger picture discussion on whether or
not this device is for you now one of
the main features they've added this
year is the option for an OLED panel on
the display and it's a really nice
looking explainer this isn't the first
OLED panel I've reviewed on this channel
I've talked about a couple of other
devices mostly gaming devices but they
all use the same panel these all use the
Samsung panel OLED 4k really nice image
and it's particularly noticeable in
media consumption like if you're
watching stuff that supports HDR or just
stuff that has a lot of color and just
can show off the vibrancy and the
benefits of an OLED screen this thing
looks awesome but I have to say in
comparison to the previous 4k panel that
they had available and they still have
that option like just the 4k regular IPS
panel it's not that much better it's not
to say that the OLED panel doesn't look
amazing it's just that the original 4k
panel that you could have gone with the
XPS 15 last year was such a nice looking
panel to begin with now if you're
worried about OLED screen burnin on a
laptop I've talked about this in
previous videos but I feel like I should
mention it here as well I've done a
couple tests I've had a screen that just
had a static image for over 30 days and
there are no issues with it so I feel
like for these particular panels like
the Samsung OLED panels that we're
seeing a lot of this year they're
perfectly fine for OLED longevity okay I
want to talk about performance this is a
device that's running the ninth
gen-i nine so it's an eight core CPU as
well as the gtx 1650 a reasonably
powerful GPU from nvidia when this
device launched four years ago it had
thermal limitations because they're
trying to put some powerful stuff into a
relatively thin and light device and
four years later it still has very
similar thermal characteristics to the
original model from 2016 now some people
look at this device as a kind of
business laptop or kind of like a
workstation laptop that is powerful and
looks relatively good in a thin and
light package but there are a lot of
people and myself included a few years
ago that look at this device like a
nice-looking gaming laptop like you
should be able to play games on it
because it is so powerful because it's
running an nvidia video card it is not a
gaming laptop and this is something i
think a lot of people just have to drill
into the minds when it comes to the XPS
branded device this is not a gaming
laptop as much as we want it to be as
much as it should be because it has
great hardware in it it cannot play
games properly to the full extent of
what this hardware should be capable of
so this device runs hot it doesn't
throttle as aggressively as last year's
model but it still hasn't very distinct
thermal limitations now just some
anecdotal story here three years ago
when overwatch first launched it's a
game that I play a lot if you follow my
channel you'll recognize that name it's
a game that is not super demanding on
your system but I used to play overwatch
on the original XPS 15 and I went from
bronze to masters on that device with a
60 Hertz screen and three and a half
years later we have the fourth iteration
of this device and the gaming
performance is not that much improved
you can play some lighter titles like
overwatch but the moment you play a game
that's taxing on both the CPU and GPU
like something like apex it'll throttle
and your game will stutter now I get it
you can do stuff like under volting and
you can lower the boost wattage on your
system like there's a lot of things you
can do to work around those issues but
for the average person they're not doing
that like if you're looking at buying
the system chances already just wanted
to pick it up and go and do its thing if
you do understand that this is still a
thermally limited chassis now there is
something left that was a bit strange
this device does not have an under
voltage CPU we've seen companies like
Acer and razor and
even Apple they all undervolt their CPUs
to get the best possible thermal
performance on the devices because this
is such a thin and light chassis design
I would have thought that they would
have just taken the opportunity to
undervolt it as well because I manually
under bolted it and you do get better
performance when you do other things oh
the inside so not a lot has changed
internally but they do have better vrm
cooling and one of the issues that
they've had with all the XPS chassis
before they did not cool the VR Rams
properly and this year they have a
heatsink on top of them the rest of the
inside hasn't really changed it's now
running a new Wi-Fi card it's still a
killer card but at least it's got Wi-Fi
6 and the battery is also unchanged it's
still a very large battery but on the
OLED screen it's a little bit less than
last year so last year I was getting
over 8 hours of battery life I got seven
running the exact same test seven and
three minutes on the same battery test
as a previous generation so still a
solid battery life but not as good as
the regular IPS panel also the webcam so
it's now moved up to the top this is a
big thing for a lot of people that used
to be down on the bottom the nose cam
and a lot of people complained about it
for years it's not at the top I actually
think it's cool that Dell spent the time
and resources to do this is actually one
of the few thin bezel laptops that has
the webcam up at the top okay I think
that basically wraps up the kind of
physical changes with this device and I
want to talk about the value proposition
that you're getting with the XPS 15
right now if you're on the market for an
XPS 15 chances are you looking for a
device that's relatively portable but
also relatively powerful and the other
device that may have popped up on your
radar is the razor blade 15 this is my
personal device now I'm not saying that
I like their razor blade over the XP
that's a lie I do like the razor blade
more than the XPS 15 but I'm not saying
it's the better choice for everyone I
play a lot of games this is why I go for
it if you play games and you actually
want to get a device with the intent of
playing games regularly do not get the
XPS 15 you will be disappointed like the
amount of money that you spend on an XPS
15 can be better spent on a bunch of
other devices that are just better for
playing games but if you want something
specifically for video editing or
photo editing or we just want something
that is like powerful for uh neural
development but you don't play games
this is still a great option the thermal
issues are way less pronounced this year
and if I did not play games I would
choose the XPS 15 over the razor blade
one of the things that I like the most
about the dell device is the keyboard
and the keyboard deck I love the carbon
fiber I love how it feels I like how it
ages it doesn't get gross and bad over
time it's just stays really clean over
the years as long as you wipe it down
once in a while and the keyboard layout
is good like I've never loved the
keyboard layout on the razor blade it's
a really good device overall except I
really wish they would fix the thermals
it's weird that even after four years
they couldn't engineer themselves out of
this thermal issue but that's what we
have now I don't think that they'll be
using this design and this chassis going
forward I feel like next year's device
is probably gonna have a completely new
redesign which would be good in my books
like I feel like they've reached the
limitations of this thing so time to
move on but if you're interested in
picking this particular year's model up
I still think of the solid device just
temper your expectations understand that
it is not a gaming laptop but more of a
just workstation and just powerful
productivity device okay hope you guys
enjoy this video thumbs if you liked it
subs if you'd love to see you guys next
time